docs(policies): rework intro page and add concepts (#1956)
kumahq/kuma-website: app/_src/policies/introduction.md

---
title: Policies
---
{% if_version gte:2.9.x %}
## What is a policy?

> A policy is a set of configuration that will be used to generate the proxy configuration.

Reviewer: this sentence uses twice word `proxy` and once `dataplane`, should it be changed to :
- `proxy` → `data-plane proxy`
- `dataplane configuration` → `Dataplane resource` 
to be compliant with the concepts page?

### Metadata

Metadata identifies the policies by its `name`, `type` and what `mesh` it's part of:

{% tabs metadata %}
{% tab metadata Universal %}

```yaml
type: ExamplePolicy
name: my-policy-name
mesh: default
spec: ... # spec data specific to the policy kind
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab metadata Kubernetes %}

In Kubernetes all our policies are implemented as [custom resource definitions (CRD)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) in the group `kuma.io/v1alpha1`.

```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: ExamplePolicy
metadata:
  name: my-policy-name
  namespace: {{ site.mesh_namespace }}
spec: ... # spec data specific to the policy kind
```

By default the policy is created in the `default` mesh.
You can specify the mesh by using the `kuma.io/mesh` label.

For example:

```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: ExamplePolicy
metadata:
  name: my-policy-name
  namespace: {{ site.mesh_namespace }}
  labels:
    kuma.io/mesh: "my-mesh"
spec: ... # spec data specific to the policy kind
```

{% warning %}

> Policies are namespace-scoped and currently the namespace must be the one the control-plane is running in `{{site.mesh_namespace}}` by default.

Reviewer: this warning is not true. In 2.8 and 2.9 you can specify different namespace than system namespace

  proxyTypes: ["Sidecar", "Gateway"] # For kinds Mesh and MeshSubset a list of matching Dataplanes types can be used
  labels:
    key: value # In the case of policies that apply to labeled resources you can use these to apply the policy to each resource
```

Here's an explanation of each kinds and their scope:

- Mesh: applies to all proxies running in the mesh
- MeshSubset: same as Mesh but filters only proxies who have matching `targetRef.tags`
- MeshService: all proxies with a tag `kuma.io/service` equal to `targetRef.name`.{% if_version gte:2.9.x %} This can work differently when using [explicit services](#using-policies-with-meshservice-meshmultizoneservice-and-meshexternalservice){% endif_version %}.
- MeshGateway: targets proxies matched by the named MeshGateway
    - Note that it's very strongly recommended to target MeshGateway proxies using this
      kind, as opposed to MeshService/MeshServiceSubset.
- MeshServiceSubset: same as `MeshService` but further refine to proxies that have matching `targetRef.tags`. ⚠️This is deprecated from version 2.9.x ⚠️.

Consider the example below:

{% policy_yaml accesslog_example %}
```yaml

> type: MeshAccessLog

Reviewer: in this example, we are using both to and from in a single policy, which we strongly advise not to do in one of the previous paragraphs. Should we split it to show good example to users?

    kind: MeshSubset
    tags:
        app: web-frontend
  to:
    - targetRef: # to level targetRef
        kind: MeshService
        name: web-backend
      default:
        backends:
          - file:
              format:
                plain: '{"start_time": "%START_TIME%"}'
              path: "/tmp/logs.txt"
  from:
    - targetRef: # from level targetRef
        kind: Mesh
      default:
        backends:
          - file:
              format:
                plain: '{"start_time": "%START_TIME%"}'
              path: "/tmp/logs.txt"
```
{% endpolicy_yaml %}

Using `spec.targetRef`, this policy targets all proxies that have a tag `app:web-frontend`.
It defines the scope of this policy as applying to traffic either from or to dataplane proxies with the tag `app:web-frontend`.

The `spec.to[].targetRef` section enables logging for any traffic going to `web-backend`.
The `spec.from[].targetRef` section enables logging for any traffic coming from _anywhere_ in the `Mesh`.

### Omitting `targetRef`
When a `targetRef` is not present. It is semantically equivalent to: `targetRef.kind: Mesh` meaning everything inside the `Mesh`.

### Applying to specific proxy types

> The `targetRef` field can select a specific subset of data plane proxies. The field named `proxyTypes` can restrict policies to specific types of data plane proxies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The top level`targetRef` field can select a specific subset of data plane proxies. The field named `proxyTypes` can restrict policies to specific types of data plane proxies:
```

- `Sidecar`: Targets data plane proxies acting as sidecars to applications.
- `Gateway`: Applies to data plane proxies operating in Gateway mode.
- Empty list: Defaults to targeting all data plane proxies.

#### Example

The following policy will only apply to gateway data-planes:
{% policy_yaml proxytypes %}
```yaml
type: MeshTimeout
name: gateway-only-timeout
mesh: default
spec:
  targetRef:
    kind: Mesh
    proxyTypes: ["Gateway"]
  to:
    - targetRef:
        kind: Mesh
      default:
        idleTimeout: 10s
```
{% endpolicy_yaml %}

> ### Target resources

Reviewer: I don't understand this heading, and after reading the paragraph it don't make much more sense to me, should it be something like `TargetRef kinds supported in different policies`?

{% endtab %}

{% tab targetRef Builtin Gateway %}
| `targetRef`           | Allowed kinds                                    |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `targetRef.kind`      | `Mesh`, `MeshGateway`, `MeshGateway` with `tags` |
| `to[].targetRef.kind` | `Mesh`                                           |
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

#### Sidecar

We see that we can select sidecar proxies via any of the kinds that select
sidecars and we can set both `to` and `from`.

We can apply policy to:
* all traffic originating at the sidecar _to_ anywhere (`to[].targetRef.kind: Mesh`)
* traffic _to_ a specific `kuma.io/service` (`to[].targetRef.kind: MeshService`)

We can also apply policy to:
* traffic terminating at the sidecar _from_ anywhere in the mesh (`from[].targetRef.kind: Mesh`)

#### Builtin gateways

We see that we can select gateway proxies via any of the kinds that select
gateways as well as specific gateway listeners and we can set only `to`.

We can only apply policy to:
* all traffic originating at the gateway _to_ anywhere (`to[].targetRef.kind: Mesh`)

## Merging configuration

> It is necessary to define a policy for merging configuration,

Reviewer: so it could be: 

```
It is necessary to define a strategy for merging configuration, because a proxy can be targeted by multiple policies.
```

> It is necessary to define a policy for merging configuration,

Author: I used algorithm

because a proxy can be targeted by multiple `targetRef`'s.

We define a total order of policy priority:

> - MeshServiceSubset > MeshService > MeshSubset > Mesh (the more a `targetRef` is focused the higher priority it has)

Reviewer: What does it mean for targetRef to be more focused? Maybe: `the more broad targetRef is, the lower the priority it has`

It can be selectively enabled and disable depending on the value of [meshServices.mode](/docs/{{ page.version }}/networking/meshservice/#migration) on your Mesh object.

When using explicit services, `MeshServiceSubset` is no longer a valid kind and `MeshService` can only be used to select an actual `MeshService` resource (it can no longer select a `kuma.io/service`).

In the following example we'll assume we have a `MeshService`:

{% policy_yaml ms-1 namespace=kuma-demo %}
```yaml
type: MeshService
name: my-service
labels:
  k8s.kuma.io/namespace: kuma-demo 
  kuma.io/zone: my-zone
  app: redis 
spec:
  selector:
    dataplaneTags:
      app: redis
      k8s.kuma.io/namespace: kuma-demo 
  ports:
  - port: 6739
    targetPort: 6739
    appProtocol: tcp
```
{% endpolicy_yaml %}

There are 2 ways to select a `MeshService`:

If you are in the same namespace (or same zone in Universal) you can select one specific service by using its explicit name:

```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: MeshTimeout
metadata:
  name: timeout-to-redis
  namespace: kuma-demo
spec:
  to:
  - targetRef:
      kind: MeshService
      name: redis
    default:
      connectionTimeout: 10s
```

> Selecting all matching resources by labels:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Selecting all matching MeshServices by labels:
```

---
title: Policies
---
{% if_version gte:2.9.x %}
## What is a policy?

A policy is a set of configuration that will be used to generate the proxy configuration.
{{ site.mesh_product_name }} combines policies with dataplane configuration to generate the Envoy configuration of a proxy.

## What do policies look like?

Like all [resources](/docs/{{ page.version }}/introduction/concepts#resource) in {{ site.mesh_product_name }}, there are two parts to a policy:

> 1. The metadata

Reviewer 2: imo this list while reading is very bold and grabs your eye for relatively little information content. I think it can be an inline sentence and then we have the sections.

2. The spec

### Metadata

Metadata identifies the policies by its `name`, `type` and what `mesh` it's part of:

{% tabs metadata %}
{% tab metadata Universal %}

```yaml
type: ExamplePolicy
name: my-policy-name
mesh: default
spec: ... # spec data specific to the policy kind
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab metadata Kubernetes %}

In Kubernetes all our policies are implemented as [custom resource definitions (CRD)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) in the group `kuma.io/v1alpha1`.

```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: ExamplePolicy
metadata:
  name: my-policy-name
  namespace: {{ site.mesh_namespace }}
spec: ... # spec data specific to the policy kind
```

By default the policy is created in the `default` mesh.
You can specify the mesh by using the `kuma.io/mesh` label.

For example:

```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: ExamplePolicy
metadata:
  name: my-policy-name
  namespace: {{ site.mesh_namespace }}
  labels:
    kuma.io/mesh: "my-mesh"
spec: ... # spec data specific to the policy kind
```

{% warning %}

> Policies are namespaced scope and currently the namespace must be the one the control-plane is running in `{{site.mesh_namespace}}` by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Policies are namespace-scoped and currently the namespace must be the one the control-plane is running in. This is `{{site.mesh_namespace}}` by default.
```

{% endwarning %}

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Spec

The `spec` field contains the actual configuration of the policy.

Some policies apply to only a subset of the configuration of the proxy.

- **Inbound policies** apply only to incoming traffic. The `spec.from[].targetRef` field defines the subset of clients that are going to be impacted by this policy.

> - **Outbound policies** apply only to outgoing traffic. The `spec.to[].targetRef` field defines the outbounds that are going to be impacted by this policy

Reviewer 2: "outbounds" as a concept IMO isn't widely defined, we should use "destinations" or similar, like "clients" in the line above.

Author: Yeah I'm lukewarm on outbounds/inbounds but I'm also not mega fan of clients vs destinations as I find not them not mega clear to me on which proxy and where they apply.
I think the GUI shows inbound/outbounds and the data-planes have inbound and outbounds. So I really think inbound/outbound policy is clearer...

Reviewer 2: The previous line uses clients though. Maybe just "outbounds, or traffic destinations for this proxy" something like that?

Author: I think in the current state on "inbounds" it's actually clients though there's a lot to be done there

> The actual configuration is defined in a `default` map.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The actual configuration is defined under the `default` field.
```

        kind: Mesh
      default: # Configuration that applies to incoming traffic
        key: value
```
{% endpolicy_yaml %}

{% tip %}
While some policies can have both a `to` and a `from` section, it is strongly advised to create 2 different policies, one for `to` and one for `from`.
{% endtip %}

Some policies are not directional and will not have `to` and `from`. Some examples of such policies are [`MeshTrace`](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/meshtrace) or [`MeshProxyPatch`](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/meshproxypatch).
For example

{% policy_yaml non-directional %}
```yaml
type: NonDirectionalPolicy
name: my-example
mesh: default
spec:
  targetRef:
    kind: Mesh
  default:
    key: value
```
{% endpolicy_yaml %}

All specs have a **top level `targetRef`** which identifies which proxies this policy applies to.
In particular, it defines which proxies have their Envoy configuration modified.

{% tip %}
One of the benefits of `targetRef` policies is that the spec is always the same between Kubernetes and Universal.

This means that converting policies between Universal and Kubernetes only means rewriting the metadata.
{% endtip %}

## Writing a `targetRef`

> `targetRef` is a concept borrowed from [Kubernetes Gateway API](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/) its usage is fully defined in [MADR 005](https://github.com/kumahq/kuma/blob/master/docs/madr/decisions/005-policy-matching.md).

Reviewer 2: Is this MADR useful/even up to date to link here?

Its goal is to select subsets of proxies with maximum flexibility.

It looks like:

```yaml
targetRef:
  kind: Mesh | MeshSubset | MeshService | MeshGateway
  name: "my-name" # For kinds MeshService, and MeshGateway a name has to be defined
  tags:
    key: value # For kinds MeshSubset and MeshGateway a list of matching tags can be used

>   proxyTypes: ["Sidecar", "Gateway"] # For kinds Mesh and MeshSubset a list of matching Dataplanes types can be used

Reviewer 2: `labels` is missing

Reviewer: also `namespace` and `sencionName` can be specified in targetRef don't we want to include it here?

Consider the example below:

{% policy_yaml accesslog_example %}
```yaml
type: MeshAccessLog
name: example
mesh: default
spec:
  targetRef: # top level targetRef
    kind: MeshSubset
    tags:
        app: web-frontend
  to:
    - targetRef: # to level targetRef
        kind: MeshService
        name: web-backend
      default:
        backends:
          - file:
              format:
                plain: '{"start_time": "%START_TIME%"}'
              path: "/tmp/logs.txt"
  from:
    - targetRef: # from level targetRef
        kind: Mesh
      default:
        backends:
          - file:
              format:
                plain: '{"start_time": "%START_TIME%"}'
              path: "/tmp/logs.txt"
```
{% endpolicy_yaml %}

Using `spec.targetRef`, this policy targets all proxies that have a tag `app:web-frontend`.
It defines the scope of this policy as applying to traffic either from or to dataplane proxies with the tag `app:web-frontend`.

The `spec.to[].targetRef` section enables logging for any traffic going to `web-backend`.
The `spec.from[].targetRef` section enables logging for any traffic coming from _anywhere_ in the `Mesh`.

### Omitting `targetRef`

> When a `targetRef` is not present. It is semantically equivalent to: `targetRef.kind: Mesh` meaning everything inside the mesh.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a `targetRef` is not present. It is semantically equivalent to `targetRef.kind: Mesh`, meaning everything inside the `Mesh`.
```

      labels:
        k8s.kuma.io/namespace: kuma-demo
    default:
      connectionTimeout: 10s
```

In this case this is equivalent to writing a specific policy for each service that matches this label (in our example for each service in this namespace in each zones).

### Global, Zonal, Producer and Consumer policies

Policies can be applied to a zone or to a namespace when using Kubernetes.
Policies will always impact at most the scope at which they are defined.
In other words:

1. a policy applied to the global control plane will apply to all proxies in all zones.
2. a policy applied to a zone will only apply to proxies inside this zone. It is equivalent to having:
   ```yaml
   spec:
     targetRef: 
       kind: MeshSubset
       tags:
         kuma.io/zone: "my-zone"
   ```
3. a policy applied to a namespace will only apply to proxies inside this namespace. It is equivalent to having:
   ```yaml
   spec:
     targetRef: 
       kind: MeshSubset
       tags:
         kuma.io/zone: "my-zone"
         kuma.io/namespace: "my-ns"
   ```

There is however, one exception to this when using `MeshService` with **outbound** policies (policies with `spec.to[].targetRef`).

> In this case, if you define a policy in the same namespace as the `MeshService` it is defined in a policy will be considered to be a **producer** policy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this case, if you define a policy in the same namespace as the `MeshService` it is defined in, that policy will be considered a **producer** policy.
```

In particular, it defines which proxies have their Envoy configuration modified.

{% tip %}
One of the benefits of `targetRef` policies is that the spec is always the same between Kubernetes and Universal.

This means that converting policies between Universal and Kubernetes only means rewriting the metadata.
{% endtip %}

## Writing a `targetRef`

`targetRef` is a concept borrowed from [Kubernetes Gateway API](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/). 
Its goal is to select subsets of proxies with maximum flexibility.

It looks like:

```yaml
targetRef:
  kind: Mesh | MeshSubset | MeshService | MeshGateway
  name: "my-name" # For kinds MeshService, and MeshGateway a name has to be defined
  tags:
    key: value # For kinds MeshSubset and MeshGateway a list of matching tags can be used
  proxyTypes: ["Sidecar", "Gateway"] # For kinds Mesh and MeshSubset a list of matching Dataplanes types can be used
  labels:
    key: value # In the case of policies that apply to labeled resources you can use these to apply the policy to each resource
  sectionName: ASection # This is used when trying to attach to a specific part of a resource (for example a port of a `MeshService`)

>   namespace: ns # when in kubernetes this namespace the resource is inside.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  namespace: ns # valid when the policy is applied by a Kubernetes control plane
```

I think?

        app: web-frontend
  to:
    - targetRef: # to level targetRef
        kind: MeshService
        name: web-backend
      default:
        backends:
          - file:
              format:
                plain: '{"start_time": "%START_TIME%"}'
              path: "/tmp/logs.txt"
```
{% endpolicy_yaml accesslog_inbound_example %}
```yaml
type: MeshAccessLog
name: example-inbound
mesh: default
spec:
  targetRef: # top level targetRef
    kind: MeshSubset
    tags:
      app: web-frontend
  from:
    - targetRef: # from level targetRef
        kind: Mesh
      default:
        backends:
          - file:
              format:
                plain: '{"start_time": "%START_TIME%"}'
              path: "/tmp/logs.txt"
```
{% endpolicy_yaml %}

Using `spec.targetRef`, this policy targets all proxies that have a tag `app:web-frontend`.
It defines the scope of this policy as applying to traffic either from or to data plane proxies with the tag `app:web-frontend`.

The `spec.to[].targetRef` section enables logging for any traffic going to `web-backend`.
The `spec.from[].targetRef` section enables logging for any traffic coming from _anywhere_ in the `Mesh`.

### Omitting `targetRef`

> When a `targetRef` is not present. It is semantically equivalent to: `targetRef.kind: Mesh` meaning everything inside the `Mesh`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a `targetRef` is not present, it is semantically equivalent to `targetRef.kind: Mesh` and refers to everything inside the `Mesh`.
```

- `Sidecar`: Targets data plane proxies acting as sidecars to applications.
- `Gateway`: Applies to data plane proxies operating in Gateway mode.
- Empty list: Defaults to targeting all data plane proxies.

#### Example

The following policy will only apply to gateway data-planes:
{% policy_yaml proxytypes %}
```yaml
type: MeshTimeout
name: gateway-only-timeout
mesh: default
spec:
  targetRef:
    kind: Mesh
    proxyTypes: ["Gateway"]
  to:
    - targetRef:
        kind: Mesh
      default:
        idleTimeout: 10s
```
{% endpolicy_yaml %}

### Target resources

Not every policy supports `to` and `from` levels. Additionally, not every resource can
appear at every supported level. The specified top level resource can also affect which
resources can appear in `to` or `from`.

To help users, each policy documentation includes tables indicating which `targetRef` kinds is supported at each level.
For each type of proxy, sidecar or builtin gateway, the table indicates for each
`targetRef` level, which kinds are supported.

#### Example tables

> These are just examples, remember to check the docs specific to your policy!

Reviewer 2: This seems bizarre to have as an _error_, maybe we need to ignore this rule. Or maybe better in a warning box? Up to you

* `from[].targetRef.kind: Mesh` which will apply to all traffic received by the sidecar _from_ anywhere in the mesh
{% endtab %}

{% tab targetRef Builtin Gateway %}
| `targetRef`           | Allowed kinds                                    |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `targetRef.kind`      | `Mesh`, `MeshGateway`, `MeshGateway` with `tags` |
| `to[].targetRef.kind` | `Mesh`                                           |

The table above indicates that we can select builtin gateway vua `Mesh`, `MeshGateway` or even specific listeners with `MeshGateway` using tags. 

We can use the policy only as an _outbound_ policy with:
* `to[].targetRef.kind: Mesh` all traffic from the gateway _to_ anywhere.

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

## Merging configuration

A proxy can be targeted by multiple `targetRef`'s, to define how policies are merged together the following strategy is used: 

We define a total order of policy priority:

- MeshServiceSubset > MeshService > MeshSubset > Mesh (the more a `targetRef` is focused the higher priority it has)
- If levels are equal the lexicographic order of policy names is used

{% tip %}

> Remember that a broader a targetRef is the lower its priority is.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Remember: the broader a `targetRef`, the lower its priority.
```

  selector:
    dataplaneTags:
      app: redis
      k8s.kuma.io/namespace: kuma-demo 
  ports:
  - port: 6739
    targetPort: 6739
    appProtocol: tcp
```
{% endpolicy_yaml %}

There are 2 ways to select a `MeshService`:

If you are in the same namespace (or same zone in Universal) you can select one specific service by using its explicit name:

```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: MeshTimeout
metadata:
  name: timeout-to-redis
  namespace: kuma-demo
spec:
  to:
  - targetRef:
      kind: MeshService
      name: redis
    default:
      connectionTimeout: 10s
```

Selecting all matching `MeshServices` by labels:

```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: MeshTimeout
metadata:
  name: all-in-my-namespace 
  namespace: kuma-demo
spec:
  to:
  - targetRef:
      kind: MeshService
      labels:
        k8s.kuma.io/namespace: kuma-demo
    default:
      connectionTimeout: 10s
```

In this case this is equivalent to writing a specific policy for each service that matches this label (in our example for each service in this namespace in each zones).

{% tip %}
When `MeshService` have multiple ports, you can use `sectionName` to restrict policy to a single port.
{% endtip %}

> ### Global, Zonal, Producer and Consumer policies

Reviewer 2: Inconsistent capitalization. I _think_ we agreed on only the first word. Either way this isn't right.

```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: MeshTimeout
metadata:
  name: timeout-to-redis-consumer
  namespace: kuma-demo
spec:
  to:
    - targetRef:
        kind: MeshService
        labels:
          k8s.kuma.io/service-name: redis
      default:
        connectionTimeout: 10s
```

{% tip %}
Remember that `labels` on a `MeshService` applies to _each_ matching `MeshService`. To communicate to services
named the same way in different namespaces or zones with different configuration use a more specific set of labels.
{% endtip %}

{{ site.mesh_product_name }} adds a label `kuma.io/policy-role` to identify the type of the policy. The values of the label are:

- **system**: Policies defined on global or in the zone's system namespace
- **workload-owner**: Policies defined in a non system namespaces that do not have `spec.to` entries, or have both `spec.from` and `spec.to` entries
- **consumer**: Policies defined in a non system namespace that have `spec.to` which either do not use `name` or have a different `namespace`
- **producer**: Policies defined in the same namespace as the services identified in the `spec.to[].targetRef`

> The merging order of the different policy scopes is: **global < zonal < producer < consumer < worload-owner**.

Reviewer 2: In the other ordering based on `kind` above, it went in the other direction.

### Example

We have 2 clients client1 and client2 they run in different namespaces respectively ns1 and ns2.

{% mermaid %}
flowchart LR
subgraph ns1
    client1(client)
end
subgraph ns2
  client2(client)
  server(MeshService: server)
end
client1 --> server
client2 --> server
{% endmermaid %}

We're going to define a producer policy first:
```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: MeshTimeout
metadata:
    name: producer-policy
    namespace: ns2
spec:
  to:
    - targetRef:
        kind: MeshService
        name: server
      default:
        idleTimeout: 20s
```

We know it's a producer policy because it is defined in the same namespace as the `MeshService: server` and names this server in its `spec.to[].targetRef`.

> So both client1 and client2 will receive the timeout of 20s.

Reviewer 2: :disappointed: luckily we can ignore this check in general but this `Google.Units` we can probably skip

name: example
mesh: default
spec:
  targetRef:
    kind: Mesh
  to:
    - targetRef:
        kind: Mesh
      default:
        key: value
```

All traffic from any proxy (top level `targetRef`) going to any proxy (to `targetRef`) will have this policy applied with value `key=value`.

#### Recommending to users

```yaml
type: ExamplePolicy
name: example
mesh: default
spec:
  targetRef:
    kind: Mesh
  to:
    - targetRef:
        kind: MeshService
        name: my-service
      default:
        key: value
```

All traffic from any proxy (top level `targetRef`) going to the service "my-service" (to `targetRef`) will have this policy applied with value `key=value`.

This is useful when a service owner wants to suggest a set of configurations to its clients.

#### Configuring all proxies of a team

```yaml
type: ExamplePolicy
name: example
mesh: default
spec:
  targetRef:
    kind: MeshSubset
    tags:
      team: "my-team"
  from:
    - targetRef:
        kind: Mesh
      default:
        key: value
```

All traffic from any proxies (from `targetRef`) going to any proxy that has the tag `team=my-team` (top level `targetRef`) will have this policy applied with value `key=value`.

> This is a useful way to define coarse grain rules for example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a useful way to define coarse-grained rules for example.
```

one where hyphenation is more correct I think...

You can mix targetRef and source/destination policies as long as they are of different types. For example: You can use `MeshTrafficPermission` with `FaultInjection` but you can't use `MeshTrafficPermission` with `TrafficPermission`.
{% endif_version %}
{% endwarning %}
{% endif_version %}

{% if_version gte:2.7.x %}

## Applying policies in shadow mode

### Overview

The new shadow mode functionality allows users to mark policies with a specific label to simulate configuration changes
without affecting the live environment.
It enables the observation of potential impact on Envoy proxy configurations, providing a risk-free method to test,
validate, and fine-tune settings before actual deployment.
Ideal for learning, debugging, and migrating, shadow mode ensures configurations are error-free,
improving the overall system reliability without disrupting ongoing operations.

### Recommended setup

> It's not necessary but CLI tools like [jq](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/) and [jd](https://github.com/josephburnett/jd) can greatly improve the UX.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's not necessary but CLI tools like [jq](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/) and [jd](https://github.com/josephburnett/jd) can greatly improve working with {{site.mesh_product_name}} resources.
```
